Draft Ballot SC-XX: Improve Certificate Problem Reports and Clarify the Meaning of Revocation (#622)
cabforum/documents: docs/BR.md

[https://www.iana.org/assignments/iana-ipv6-special-registry/iana-ipv6-special-registry.xhtml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/iana-ipv6-special-registry/iana-ipv6-special-registry.xhtml)

**Revoked**: Effective 2026-05-15, a certificate is considered revoked if:

> - if the certificate contains a CRL Distribution Point URI, a CRL containing the certificate serial number is available for consumption by Relying Parties at that URI; and

Author: Actually, it's been pointed out by @robstradling that this language introduces a new problem. The updated language would technically allow revoking only by OCSP and not CRL, and still count as being revoked. 

I'm going to suggest going back to the double-if language, for added clarity

> - if the certificate contains an Authority Information Access OCSP URI, an OCSP request to that URI for the certificate serial number results in a response with a `certStatus` value of `revoked`.

Reviewer: Same as above.

No stipulation.

> ### 4.4.4 Problem reports

Author: @aarongable  Agreed with it fitting better elsewhere. What about making this section 4.9.2.1, so it falls under "Who can request revocation"?

> ### 4.4.4 Problem reports

Reviewer 2: Me too - that's where the S/MIME BR already have this equivalent language

> Prior to 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to this section of these Requirements or this section of Version 2.1.7 of these Requirements. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to this section of these Requirements.

Author: Yea, once all the comments are in and we're in agreement, I'll have a look and see if we can have the effective date at the top of section 4 or 4.9, rather than again in every section, to keep it clean.   TBD.

> The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions through a readily accessible online means and in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS.

Author: Good point. I worry that having it only in the CPS, may not be easy to find for relying parties. 

What about: "The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS and SHOULD additionally disclose the instructions through readily accessible online means (e.g. a KB article, dedicated webpage, FAQ)"?

> The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions through a readily accessible online means and in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS.

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with that.

> The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions through a readily accessible online means and in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS.

Author: ```suggestion
The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS and SHOULD additionally disclose the instructions through readily accessible online means (e.g. a KB article, dedicated webpage, FAQ).
```

Within twenty four (24) hours after receiving a Certificate Problem Report, the CA SHALL investigate the facts and circumstances related to the report and determine if it's "actionable."

A Certificate Problem Report is considered actionable if it includes:

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA, either directly or transitively (e.g., by attaching a Certificate file); and

Author: ```suggestion
1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA, either directly or transitively (e.g., by attaching a Certificate file); and
```

Yet at the same time I've seen CAs which require PDF forms to be filled. 

I agree with you in part, files can be nasty. But at the same time, if a researcher wants to report a bunch of certificates through an attachments, I wouldn't want to see a situation where the CA would reject it just because the requirements says it doesn't make it a CPR in that case.

2. a description of either:
    - how the Certificate(s) in question violates these Requirements or a CA's own policies; or

>     - a reason for Certificate revocation (e.g., a demonstration of key compromise, or a Subscriber request aligned with [Section 4.9.1](#491-circumstances-for-revocation)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - a reason for Certificate revocation (e.g., a demonstration of Key Compromise, or a Subscriber request aligned with [Section 4.9.1](#491-circumstances-for-revocation)).
```

Alignment with the Defined Term.

A CA MAY take measures to prevent submission of non-actionable Certificate Problem Reports (e.g., input control validation on a form used to collect Certificate Problem Reports), but MUST be able to receive actionable Certificate Problem Reports.

Within twenty four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable:

> 1. The CA SHALL provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The CA SHALL provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report, if contact details have been provided.
```
@aarongable  thoughts on the above "if" carveout?

2. The CA SHOULD provide a report on its findings to Subscriber(s).

> 3. If the CA determines the Certificate Problem Report requires an action of revocation for the Certificate(s) specified within, the CA SHOULD work with the Subscriber to determine the date and time which the CA will revoke the Certificate. The period from the time the Certificate Problem Report was determined actionable to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate).

Author: ```suggestion
3. If the CA determines the Certificate Problem Report requires an action of revocation for the Certificate(s) specified within, the CA SHOULD work with the applicable Subscriber to determine the date and time which the CA will revoke the Certificate. The period from the time the Certificate Problem Report was determined actionable to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate).
```

### 4.9.3 Procedure for revocation request

Prior to 2026-05-15, for Section 4.9.3 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.7 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

The CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe a process for Subscribers to request revocation of their own Certificates.

The CA SHALL maintain a continuous 24x7 ability to accept and respond to revocation requests.

The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS and SHOULD additionally disclose the instructions through readily accessible online means (e.g. a KB article, dedicated webpage, FAQ).

> Within twenty four (24) hours after receiving a Certificate Problem Report, the CA SHALL investigate the facts and circumstances related to the report and determine if it's "actionable."

Reviewer: Consistency of hyphenation (see 4.9.7 for more examples of "twenty-four").

A Certificate Problem Report is considered actionable if it includes:

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and

Author: Good point. Hash can be very broad. 

What about this?:

```suggestion
1. at least one serial number or SHA-256 fingerprint of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and
```

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and

Reviewer 5: Sounds great, thank you for updating it.

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and

Reviewer 5: I apologize, I did not write this clearly. Instead of "ideally both" I meant "ideally either".

I did not intend to suggest that a reporter should need to send both. Rather, I wanted to suggest that a CA MUST support a serial and SHOULD support the use of a fingerprint.

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and

Author: >I have no idea how to re-open this thread... :)

Done;)

>Rather, I wanted to suggest that a CA MUST support a serial and SHOULD support the use of a fingerprint.

Ok, understood. But this bit is more about what classifies something as a actionable. I'm not sure language to the effect of "SHOULD classify a CPR as actionable if a fingerprint has been provided", is reasonable. 

This is trying to find the balance between not having too high of a bar for marking a CPR as actionable, while also being reasonable to search for by a CA.

> 1. at least one serial number or hash of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA; and

Reviewer 5: How's this:

at least one valid identifier for a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA. The CA MUST support the use of a serial number and MAY support the use of a SHA-256 fingerprint as an identifier; and

2. a description of either:
    - how the Certificate(s) in question violates these Requirements or a CA's own policies; or
    - a reason for Certificate revocation (e.g., a demonstration of Key Compromise, or a Subscriber request aligned with [Section 4.9.1](#491-circumstances-for-revocation)).

A CA MAY take measures to prevent submission of non-actionable Certificate Problem Reports (e.g., input control validation on a form used to collect Certificate Problem Reports), but MUST be able to receive actionable Certificate Problem Reports.

Within twenty four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable:

> 1. The CA SHALL provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report, if contact details have been provided.

Reviewer 6: It's not entirely clear to me what implications the addition of the "if contact details have been provided" carveout bring. 

If the CPR is submitted via an email, doesn't that imply that contact details were provided and available to the CA? 

If the CPR is submitted via a webform, shouldn't it already include a required field for contact details in order to satisfy the TLS BR expectations currently included in Section 4.9.5 - which state the CPR submitter must be contacted within 24 hours?

Whatever change occurs on this line, if any, it might also need to be applied to line 1564.

Reviewer 7: I would just change the order. "If contact details have been provided, the CA SHALL..."

Within twenty-four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is not actionable, the CA MUST provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report and request the information necessary to satisfy the above requirements of an actionable Certificate Problem Report.

**Note**: If a non-actionable Certificate Problem Report is later amended by the reporter to satisfy the requirements of an actionable report described above, the time of receipt of the requested missing information is the basis for subsequent revocation timelines, if determined necessary.

### 4.9.4 Revocation request grace period

No stipulation.

### 4.9.5 Time within which CA must process the revocation request

Prior to 2026-05-15, for Section 4.9.5 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.9 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

> The period between receipt of a revocation request from the Subscriber and published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). 

Author: Thanks @aarongable, though maybe I should have been more clear in my question. 

Based on what you're describing, those aren't directly a revocation request by the Subscriber, but rather all of these sounds like they're a Certificate Problem Report filed by third parties (the new domain owner is in this case still a third-party). 

My question was more based on Cade's request, hinting on the Subscriber filing a manual revocation request, and the need to identify them as the Subscriber. So let me rephrase: How often does an ACME CA get a manual revocation request from the Subscriber themselves?

> The period between receipt of a revocation request from the Subscriber and published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). 

Reviewer 5: I asked Gemini to be a little more concise:

The period between receipt of a revocation request from the Subscriber and published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](https://www.google.com/search?q=%234911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). If the request is not authenticated upon receipt, the CA SHALL within 24 hours of receipt work with the requester to authenticate the request, and the period listed above will be measured from the time of authentication.

> The period from the time from determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The period between the determination that a Certificate Problem Report is actionable and published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). 
```

### 4.9.3 Procedure for revocation request

Prior to 2026-05-15, for Section 4.9.3 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.7 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

The CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe:
- a process for Subscribers to request revocation of their own Certificates; and
- when the revocation reason is "Key Compromise", the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing the same public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all time-valid certificates containing the same public key.

The CA SHALL maintain a continuous 24x7 ability to accept and respond to revocation requests.

### 4.9.4 Revocation request grace period

No stipulation.

### 4.9.5 Time within which CA must process the revocation request

> Prior to 2026-05-15, for Section 4.9.5 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.7 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Prior to 2026-05-15, for Section 4.9.5 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.9 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-05-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.
```

> The period from the time from receipt of the revocation request to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate). The date selected by the CA SHOULD consider the following criteria:

Reviewer 4: I think this timeline is different from the one in 4.4.4. 4.4.4 says:

> Within twenty four (24) hours after receiving a Certificate Problem Report, the CA SHALL investigate the facts and circumstances related to the report and determine if it's "actionable."

and

> The period from the time the Certificate Problem Report was determined actionable to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate).

This means 4.4.4 allows for an initial 24 hour investigation period for the CPR to determine whether or not it is actionable.

However, this section (4.9.5) seemingly does not have this 24 hour allowance.

### 4.9.3 Procedure for revocation request

Prior to 2026-09-15, for Section 4.9.3 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.2.5 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

The CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe a process for Subscribers to request revocation of their own Certificates.

> The CA SHALL maintain a continuous 24x7 ability to accept and respond to revocation requests.

Author: ```suggestion
The CA SHALL maintain highly available systems to accept revocation requests and Certificate Problem Reports, and the personnel and procedures to meet the response deadlines specified in these Requirements.
```

> The CA SHALL provide Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties with clear instructions for reporting suspected Private Key Compromise, Certificate misuse, or other types of fraud, compromise, misuse, inappropriate conduct, or any other matter related to Certificates. The CA SHALL publicly disclose the instructions in Section 1.5.2 of their CPS and SHOULD additionally disclose the instructions through readily accessible online means (e.g. a KB article, dedicated webpage, FAQ).

Reviewer 8: I suggest to change "The CA SHALL provide ... clear instructions" to "The CA SHALL describe how ... can submit Certificate Problem Reports" because "provide" could (at least for me as non-native speaker) also mean that this informatin must be given to the recipients in some form, not necessarily just through publication in the CPS.

Within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving a Certificate Problem Report, the CA SHALL investigate the facts and circumstances related to the report and determine if it's "actionable."

A Certificate Problem Report is considered actionable if it includes:

> 1. at least one valid identifier for a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA. The CA MUST support the use of a serial number and SHOULD support the use of a SHA-256 fingerprint of the Certificate and/or Precertificate as an identifier; and"

Reviewer: Reflecting upon some recent problem reporting experience, it seems like CAs should reliably accept:

- serial numbers of affected certificates, 
- sha256 fingerprints of affected precertificates, **and**
- sha256 fingerprints of affected certificates

We (CRP) recently encountered a CPR webform that appeared to reject a valid precertificate fingerprint. That doesn't feel like an appropriate outcome, but seems to be enabled by this proposed text.

I also wonder if when webforms are used they should be required to:

1. Provide evidence the form submission was successfuly submitted (like an email confirmation or a submission receipt number presented on the screen), and
2. Include an email address that could be relied upon if users are having problems with the form.

Thoughts @XolphinMartijn?

Reviewer 8: I like the suggestion in point 1.
Doesn't point 2 bring us back to the problem of email not being reliable?

Reviewer 9: Instinctively, I'd say that, if the CA supports serial numbers as identifiers, that should be considered sufficient. Why oblige the CAs to support multiple identifiers?

The reason for the push-back is that the serial number is generally an already indexed field in CA databases. sha256 fingerprint is generally not. Requiring CAs to add an index on it just for this purpose seems overkill.

Second, I have big concerns about requiring CAs to accept emails. The internet is full of spam. It' is unreasonnable to expect CAs to go through the spam. I remember past CA incidents where legitimate emails were missed because the spam filters flagged them as spam. Spending energy tuning spam filters is not effort well spent IMHO.

Unlike emails, webforms can leverage CAPTCHAs and other similar mechanisms to ensure the sender went through some hoops to prove their intent is legitimate before sending the message.

Reviewer: Thanks, Fabien - as always, **I appreciate your perspective**.

There’s an obvious tension between a CA’s goal (defining intake options to make deterministic compliance simple, consistent, and reliable) and the perspective I outlined above (minimizing friction for legitimate problem reporters). We certainly empathize with the CA position, or we wouldn't have brought forward this proposal in the first place. The ballot attempts to decrease CA friction by allowing for up to 24 hours of problem scoping _before_ revocation timelines begin, meaning we’re extending what has, in practice, been 5 days - to 6 days for most revocation use cases. 

A few thoughts on balance:
- I agree that indexing values not natively present in certificates adds overhead, especially at scale. But from a reporter's lens, refusing the community’s de facto way of referencing certificates (fingerprint) feels like a bug, not a feature. Could the additional 24 hours of revocation window be considered to help offset that _potentially_ new CA Owner overhead?
- Depending how it's implemented, adding friction ("went through some hoops") for researchers to report a vulnerability could create a strong incentive to either (1) do nothing at all, or (2) disclose in a much less constructive, higher-risk way ("I couldn't get through your web form, so I posted this compromised private key to m.d.s.p. or Reddit"). It’s also unclear what we expect to happen when forms aren’t working (for example, in [this](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2049179) recent Bug - a reporter had issues with a webform. (I have (seriously!) learned about CA certificate misissuance through Reddit, of all places).
- In my view, the BRs do not specify that a submission is only a "Certificate Problem Report" if it arrives through the CA's preferred channel. 

On the last point, and somewhat a loaded question, if a reporter finds a CA representative's direct email (say, via the public SCWG group) and sends what this proposal defines as an "actionable" report - in your opinion, is it acceptable not to process it as the BRs describe? 

If the answer is "No." - then it seems we’re already stuck with the downsides of email - but we might as well find ways of making it more constructive.

Reviewer 9: Thanks for the detailed answer/rationale. Full disclosure: What triggered my message was the idea of requiring CAs to support email as contact method. I don't feel very strongly about the sha256 fingerprint identifiers.

The additional 24h is orthogonal. It does not offset the cost of supporting the new sha256 fingerprint identifiers. I suppose that if the requirement was reworded to only require support for these new sha256 fingerprint identifiers for certificates **issued after** the effective date, then it would simplify the implementation cost since CAs would be exempt to backfill database records of already issued certificates.

To be honest, I didn't read the ballot before posting my comment. Someone notified me that this comment was posted, so that's all I looked at before posting my reply. 

I have now read the diff, and I see that we probably have a misunderstanding/misalignment. It looks like the ballot is mostly focussed on CPRs in the context of general/systemic mis-issuances identified by security/compliance researchers. From my experience, most CPRs are not that. Most CPRs are posted by confused users who forgot/don't understand that they delegated control of their domain to a hosting provider who requests certificates on their behalf.

I only read the diff once, maybe I missed it, but I don't think this ballot requires CAs to support bulk CPRs where mutliple identifiers are provided/validated. Does it? (maybe that's not relevant since the ballot says that the CA must review its population of issued certificates)

Here is an idea (I fear you may not be satisfied with it, but honestly, it seems reasonable). If a CPR form only supports a single serial number identifier and rejects the CPR otherwise, the reporter can still paste the sha256 fingerprints in the message body, link a pastebin URL, etc. to reference the full corpus of affected certificates. All they have to do is provide the serial number of one of the affected certificates in the form.

But again, I don't feel very strongly about requiring CAs to support sha256 fingerprint identifiers.

Regarding your last point/question. My position is that CPRs can only be actionable if they are sent through the officially supported channels since these are the only ones staffed with a 24x7 rotation. If a "CPR" is sent to a CA representative via email, there is no guarantee that they are working on that day/week nor reading their emails (maybe they are attending a conference or are busy with other things, etc.). Sure, maybe the CA representative is responsive and will forward that information, but thats a **best effort** channel. It would be unnaceptable to attach compliance requirements to it.

Reviewer 3: I concur with Fabien's stance regarding whether emails directly to CA staff can count as CPRs: they cannot be, as a CA cannot monitor those inboxes 24x7. There's also precedent to this effect in multiple bugzilla incidents and CABF discussions.

I am strongly opposed to requiring that CAs support email for CPRs. Let's Encrypt currently uses email as our primary CPR mechanism, and it is a horrid mess of inbox configuration, disabling spam filters, treating spam as though it were legitimate CPRs, and jerry-rigging alerting to ensure we never miss a deadline. For example: suppose someone emails with a legitimate-sounding description of a problem, but fails to actually identify any certificates in the report, so you respond thanking them for the effort but indicating that there is no action you can take. Two weeks later, in the midst of a long weekend, they respond with a message whose body is just a single serial number. Was the first message actually a CPR, despite not indicating any specific certificates to revoke? Is their follow-up a CPR, despite not actually containing any evidence for revocation? Is your inbox system flexible enough to keep these messages threaded for context, but also to only alert based on when the _new_ message is approaching the 24 hour deadline, not the thread as a whole?

All of this is why I'm very excited for this ballot to clarify and improve CPRs. But so much of that work will be for naught if CAs are required to accept unstructured reports via email to an open inbox. We are actively investigating moving to a web form based system.

Reviewer 8: I would also prefer to not have to monitor e-mail at all. However, I think we must establish some form of escalation mechanism in case a reporter wants to report using a webform and somehow can't (for whatever reason).

Reviewer 7: What if the CPR doesn't include the population of affected certificates and is a claim that the CA has violated its CP/CPS, e.g. in a certificate profile section? While this proposed language covers cases like "compromised keys" or "incorrect subject information" or "invalid CAA or DCV", there are CPRs that claim that all issued certificates are invalid.

Strictly following this definition, unless the reporter enumerates all certificates, the CPR may be considered "non-actionable".

Reviewer 7: For the cases of CPRs claiming23 mass-revocation (i.e. the CPR claims that a very large number or % of the CA's issued certificates need to be revoked), 24 hours is hardly enough to reach a safe conclusion about whether a CPR is actionable or not. Perhaps create a separate category where if the CPR claims the revocation of more than X% (25%?) of the CA's currently non-expired, non-revoked certificates, allow 72 hours (just a suggestion) to make the determination whether it's actionable or not.

Reviewer 9: Answering @dzacharo 

> What if the CPR doesn't include the population of affected certificates and is a claim that the CA has violated its CP/CPS, e.g. in a certificate profile section?

IMHO, the reporter must provide at least one certificate to support their claim for the CPR to be considered actionable.

It is then the responsibility of the CA to look up other potentially affected certificates based on the root cause heuristics (if applicable). Of course, a more complete population provided by the reporter is welcome (but not required) in case it facilitates the identification of the problem.

Answering @XolphinMartijn 

> What about instead, we add a requirement that, if the CA utilizes a web form, the CA MUST NOT block submission of said form purely based on the lack of a serial number(s)?

Can you please clarify?
* Are you saying that CAs must accept CPRs without any valid identifier?
* Are you saying that CAs are allowed to require a valid identifier, but it can't be the serial number? (i.e. it can be a domain name, sha256 fingerprint, or something else, but not a serial number)

In any case, I disagree with both. CAs need a way to ensure that the submitted CPRs are of sufficient quality. Requiring the submitter to provide a valid identifier is a good way to do it. Not allowing the use of serial numbers for this purpose seems overly restrictive.

Having said that, I agree that leaked private keys are a special case and that submitting the private key alone, without serial number nor any acompanying text must be considered sufficient to consider the key as compromised.

To be clear, **this is only true if the private key is sent through the officially supported channels**. Private keys sent directly to CA representatives via e-mail CANNOT be considered a valid report. For example: the HR representative of the CA is not supposed to know what a private key is. They cannot be expected to know what to do with it. We don't want to draw the line between technical and non-technical CA representatives. As such, only officially supported channels must be used, period.

And to be even more clear: If a private key is submitted using "the wrong" (see explanation below) officially supported channel, then the CPR must not be considered actionable either.

Let's assume a CA has 3 webforms:

* One for general questions
* One for submitting CPRs, which requires a valid identifier to be considered actionable
* One for submitting leaked private keys

The submitted private key can only be considered actionable if it was sent either to the 2nd webform (**with a valid identifier**) or the 3rd webform. If the private key is posted to the 1st webform or to the 2nd one but without a valid identifier, then it cannot be considered an actionable CPR.

Author: @fhchstr  I'm suggesting that CAs must accept CPRs without any valid identifier?

>In any case, I disagree with both. CAs need a way to ensure that the submitted CPRs are of sufficient quality. Requiring the submitter to provide a valid identifier is a good way to do it. Not allowing the use of serial numbers for this purpose seems overly restrictive.

>Having said that, I agree that leaked private keys are a special case and that submitting the private key alone, without serial number nor any acompanying text must be considered sufficient to consider the key as compromised.

Here's the problem though. We can't have both of these. We can't state that restricting submissions only if a serialNumber is added is allowed, while also stating only submitting a private key is allowed.

Therefor I'm suggesting we state CAs shall not block submission of a form because of a missing identifier. It's up to the CA to determine if a report is actionable or not once they've received it

Reviewer 9: I firmly believe that it is preferable to allow CAs block submission if no valid identifier is provided. In this context, a private key can count as a valid identifier.

Requiring a valid identifier acts as a strong spam filter. CAPTCHA is not sufficient. Real humans often misuse CPR forms to request support related or not to certificates. Requiring them to provide a valid certificate identifier ensures that they have a minimal understanding of what certificates are.

Also, I realize that "identifier" is a poor choice of words since DNS Names and IP addresses are also called "identifiers" in the context of certificates. IMHO, providing a valid domain name for which the CA issued a certificate is not sufficient to consider a CPR actionable. We need something that uniquely identifies the certificate (I know, serial numbers are not guaranteed to be unique across issuers - but in practice they very often are).

Here is a suggestion to reword that part of the ballot. It's not perfect, but maybe it's a step in the right direction. It achieves 3 things:
1. Uses "unique identifier" instead of "identifier" to avoid confusion with DNS Names/IP Addresses.
1. Adds the explicit mention that a CPR containing only a cleartext private key an no other information is sufficient to consider a report as actionable.
2. Tells that supporting one of serial number or sha256 fingerpring is required

> A Certificate Problem Report is considered actionable if it includes the cleartext private of a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA or if it includes:
> 1. at least one valid unique identifier for a time-valid and unrevoked Certificate issued by the CA. The CA MUST support at least one of the following unique identifiers: serial number, SHA-256 fingerprint of the Certificate and/or Precertificate; and
> 2. information about either: [...]

Author: >Requiring a valid identifier acts as a strong spam filter. CAPTCHA is not sufficient. Real humans often misuse CPR forms to request support related or not to certificates. Requiring them to provide a valid certificate identifier ensures that they have a minimal understanding of what certificates are.

I can only go by personal experience, and obviously cannot speak for other CAs, but we've run our CPR queue for many years, including a free to email address, and have not seen any such issues. 

>IMHO, providing a valid domain name for which the CA issued a certificate is not sufficient to consider a CPR actionable

I believe CAs should treat the inclusion of a domain name as a reason to call a report actionable. However, I'm not prepared to add it as a specified identifier within the requirements. 

>Uses "unique identifier" instead of "identifier" to avoid confusion with DNS Names/IP Addresses.

But what if a specific DNS name has only been included once in any certificate? That would suddenly class it as a unique identifier, but that's not where you want to go with your proposal I assume.

>Adds the explicit mention that a CPR containing only a cleartext private key an no other information is sufficient to consider a report as actionable.

I really do appreciate this proposal, however here's where the trouble comes in. A clear-text private key being reported, should not be actionable only if it's used in an unrevoked or expired certificate. Any reported key should be blocked for future issuance, period. 

For the moment, I'm inclined not to change this paragraph. I do believe we need to address reporting private keys, but I feel that this may need its separate language. Additionally, private key reporting could be done in different, automated, and CA-agnostic ways, which is more the reason I'd like to move the industry to. 

I'll happily expand on that separate from this thread if there's interest in discussing it, but I don't believe we should hold up this ballot further at this point. If we feel different down the line, further improvements can be made later on

Reviewer 9: I am OK to keep the wording of this paragraph as it is. The two primary reasons why I got involved in this comment thread are resolved (requiring CAs to support email as a contact method and requiring CAs to support sha256 fingeprints).

This ballot is a strict improvement compared to the current set of requirements. I do not want to delay it.

Happy to collaborate on a future ballot if necessary :)

Thank you for the constructive discussion.

2. information about either:
    - how the Certificate(s) in question violates these Requirements or a CA's own policies; or
    - a reason for Certificate revocation (e.g., a demonstration of Key Compromise, or a Subscriber request aligned with [Section 4.9.1](#491-circumstances-for-revocation)).

A CA MAY take measures to prevent submission of non-actionable Certificate Problem Reports (e.g., input control validation on a form used to collect Certificate Problem Reports), but MUST be able to receive actionable Certificate Problem Reports.

> 

Reviewer 8: I wonder, would providing a link to the CPS statisfy "... furnish the reporting party with the above definition..."?

> Within twenty-four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable:

Reviewer 7: I prefer the original language. The CA ultimately decides whether the report is actionable or not. Even if it meets the minimum requirements of an "actionable" CPR, the CA may not agree with the assumptions of the reporter. For example, the CPR may claim a violation in section x.y.z and the CA may consider it a non-violation. In that case, the CPR would be accepted and processed but would not continue with revocations.

1. The CA SHALL provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report, if contact details have been provided.

> 2. The CA SHOULD provide a report on its findings to applicable Subscriber(s).

Reviewer 7: That's another troubling issue. If a CPR claims the revocation of a very large % of certificates (or all of them), is the CA expected to notify the vast majority or ALL of its Subscribers that it received a CPR, and provide a report of its findings, even if the determination is that the CPR is not actionable (i.e. does not lead to revocation)? It makes sense to notify Subscribers if their certificates are scheduled for revocation but it can easily be abused by reporters that claim that all certificates need to be revoked.

Author: >even if the determination is that the CPR is not actionable

No. The items are preceded by "After determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable"

If you mean, "After determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable but does not constitute a non-compliance", then yes, but as this is a SHOULD level requirement, the CA would be in its right to not do so. 

Likewise if there are law-enforcement requests. To that extent, but it's worth mentioning, I do not believe the SHOULD level requirement on reporting to Subscribers can ever become a MUST.

> 3. If the CA determines the Certificate Problem Report requires an action of revocation for the Certificate(s) specified within, the CA SHOULD work with the applicable Subscriber to determine the date and time which the CA will revoke the Certificate. The period from the time the Certificate Problem Report was determined actionable to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate).

Reviewer 7: I support the original language, leaving more space for Subscribers to prepare for the certificate replacement before the revocation. There will be time limits to a CA deciding whether a CPR is actionable or not.

Within one hundred twenty (120) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is actionable, the CA MUST evaluate all time-valid and unrevoked Certificates issued by the CA to detect additional instances of the non-compliance described in the report. The period from the time the additional affected Certificates were first identified to published revocation MUST NOT exceed the time frame set forth in [Section 4.9.1.1](#4911-reasons-for-revoking-a-subscriber-certificate).

> Within twenty four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is not actionable, the CA MUST provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report if contact details have been provided and request the information necessary to satisfy the above requirements of an actionable Certificate Problem Report.

Reviewer 9: I am not comfortable with this MUST requirement.

Technically, if a spam request is sent via the CPR intake form, it is "not actionable".

It is not fair to require CAs to respond to such "reports".

Can we either make it a SHOULD or reword in a way to only require CA response for original reports that "seem" legitimate. Honeslty, I don't like the latter, because there is no way to have a clearly delimited line.

Author: @fhchstr Note, that is currently a requirement on CAs already. Anything we change would be a lessening of requirements. 

Agreed with you on the spam thing, at the same time, CAs do need to respond to legitimate emails imo. How about this?

```suggestion
Within twenty four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is not actionable, the CA MUST provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report if contact details have been provided and request the information necessary to satisfy the above requirements of an actionable Certificate Problem Report, unless the CA can reasonably claim the Certificate Problem Report is spam.
```

I agree with you that this is impossible to quantify, how I don't believe in completely allowing a CA to not respond at all to an otherwise legitimate request

Reviewer 9: Thanks for the edit! I would like to cover a bit more than spam, for example "my certificate expired", "help me configure TLS on Apache", "I get an SSL error when I visit this site", etc. What about this?

> , unless the CA can clearly determine the Certificate Problem Report is unrelated to the compliance or security of certificates it issued.

Author: That works. I've combined it into 
>, unless the CA can reasonably claim the Certificate Problem Report  is unrelated to the compliance or security of certificates it issued.

Will commit tomorrow unless there are further comments

> Within twenty four (24) hours after determining a Certificate Problem Report is not actionable, the CA MUST provide a report on its findings to the entity who filed the Certificate Problem Report if contact details have been provided and request the information necessary to satisfy the above requirements of an actionable Certificate Problem Report.

Reviewer 7: I would change the order. "If contact details have been provided, the CA SHALL..."

**Note**: If a non-actionable Certificate Problem Report is later amended by the reporter to satisfy the requirements of an actionable report described above, the time of receipt of the requested missing information is the basis for subsequent revocation timelines, if determined necessary.

### 4.9.4 Revocation request grace period

No stipulation.

### 4.9.5 Time within which CA must process the revocation request

> Prior to 2026-09-15, for Section 4.9.5 of these Requirements, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements or Version 2.1.9 of the Baseline Requirements for TLS Server Certificates. Effective 2026-09-15, the CA SHALL adhere to these Requirements.

Reviewer 10: Same as above.  Current version is well beyond 2.1.9

1. MUST update and publish a new CRL at least every twelve (12) months;
2. MUST update and publish a new CRL within twenty-four (24) hours after recording a Certificate as revoked.

> CA Certificates MUST continue issuing CRLs until one of the following is true:

Author: How about further clarifying (and not to confuse it with CA Owner), but utilizing "Issuing CAs"?

Not applicable.

> ### 4.9.17 Authoritative certificate status

Author: I'm not in favour of this though. There's been a lot of discussion around having requirements inside of the definitions, and it feels like it's still a controversial topic. 

I could possibly see this as part of 4.10.3 however. Either as the text of 4.10.3 itself, or create 4.10.3.1. 

Another option would be to add this text to the current 4.9.5 section, as that section already relates to the time available

> ### 4.9.17 Authoritative certificate status

Author: I like the proposal, however I'll solicit some opinions before committing this into the definitions

Effective 2026-05-15, for a certificate to be considered revoked:
1. If the CA publishes a CRL, the CRL containing the certificate serial number MUST have been published to the Repository and be available for consumption for Relying Parties; and

> 2. If the certificate contains a HTTP URL of the Issuing CA's OCSP responder, at least one (1) OCSP response containing a `certStatus` value of `revoked` MUST have been published to the Repository and be available for consumption for Relying Parties.

Reviewer 3: I like the first one, and have incorporated it into my suggested Definitions rephrasing in the comment above.

See [Section 4.9.1](#491-circumstances-for-revocation).

> Effective 2026-09-15, the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing a known compromised public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all time-valid certificates containing the same compromised public key when the revocation reason of a revocation is "Key Compromise",

Reviewer 4: If the intent of using "time-valid" is to require updating the revocation reason for certificates that were previously revoked for any other reason, then section 7.2.2 should be updated to change the SHOULD to a MUST for updating the reason code to `keyCompromise`.

If that's not the intent, then I agree with @aww-aww that "active" is better here.

> Effective 2026-09-15, the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing a known compromised public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all time-valid certificates containing the same compromised public key when the revocation reason of a revocation is "Key Compromise",

Author: My only worry that "active" is open to interpretation. Is it active if it's unexpired, unrevoked, but not installed?

```suggestion
Effective 2026-09-15, the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing a known compromised public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all unexpired and unrevoked certificates containing the same compromised public key when the revocation reason of a revocation is "Key Compromise",
```

How about this suggestion?

> Effective 2026-09-15, the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing a known compromised public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all unexpired and unrevoked certificates containing the same compromised public key when the revocation reason of a revocation is "Key Compromise",

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Effective 2026-09-15, the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification Practice Statement MUST describe the circumstances that necessitate the CA to (1) reject subsequent certificate requests containing a known compromised public key and (2) perform a cascading revocation of all unexpired and unrevoked certificates containing the same compromised public key when the revocation reason of a revocation is `keyCompromise`,
```

With that said, how is "a known compromised public key" defined? We know about the DoS attack for reported compromised keys without demonstration of private key control.

Author: @dzacharo  "Key Compromise" is a defined term.
